## Attributes

Attributes are an important part of an ontology since they describe the component parts of a particular business entity. They are modeled by way of concepts, ontology, and semantic actions. Most of these components are auto-generated by EBA when an agent is loaded. Developers need to define a couple of definitions in the ontology:

1. An attribute concept **must** be a subclass of `:Attribute`;
2. An attribute concept **must** be associated with an entity concept by defining an accessor (JSON field name).

EBA handles attributes on the assumption that entities are represented by JSON objects and collections are represented by a JSON array of JSON objects. EBA only supports primitive types as attribute values. To enable type-specific out-of-the-box semantic actions (like ranking for numerical attributes, or fuzzy search for string attributes) additional ontology needs to be defined:

* A numeric attribute concept **must** be a subclass of `:NumAttribute`
* A string attribute concept **must** be a subclass of `:StrAttribute`
* A date attribute concept **must** be a subclass of `:DateAttribute`

### Autogenerated concepts

For every attribute EBA automatically generates all the necessary components (concepts, ontology, and semantic actions). You might use some of these autogenerated concepts in your semantic actions or visualizers if necessary. If the attribute `example:Price` is defined as an attribute of `example:Product` EBA generates the following ontology:

1. `example:Product hasAttribute example:Price` - this relation might be useful in polymorphic semantic actions or rewriting rules
2. `example:PriceValue, example:PriceValues isValueOf example:Price` - for every attribute additional concepts are generated which represent actual values of attributes. EBA distinguishes singular and plural forms of attribute values. Refer to these concepts when you define custom visualization for your attributes
3. `attr:ProductPrice attributeOf example:Product, example:Products` - for every attribute - entity relationship EBA generates an auxiliary concept to hold a JSON field name. These auxiliary concepts are used in OOB semantic actions to sort, filter, or rank collections.

### Sharing the attributes

You can share attribute concepts among different business entities if necessary. For example, you can define the attribute `example:Address` and then make it as an attribute of both `example:Customer` and `example:Supplier`. EBA generates two auxiliary concepts to distinguish these attributes: `attr:CustomerAddress` and `attr:SupplierAddress`.

Next up, [patterns](./Patterns.md)
